services/adding-a-service.html.md, before:

---
title: Add a Service
---

_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

This guide walks you through adding, binding, and using services.
It assumes you have pushed an application to your Cloud Foundry instance.

## <a id='intro'></a>Intro to Services ##

Cloud Foundry Services are add-ons that can be provisioned alongside your application. Learn all about Services at [Using Services](index.html).

There are two types of Cloud Foundry services:
- Service brokers advertise catalogs of [managed services](./managed.html) such as databases, key-value stores, messaging, or other types of services.
- [User-provided services](./user-provided.html) allow you to represent external assets like databases, messaging services, and key-value stores in Cloud Foundry.

In order to use services with your application you will need to:

1. [Create](#create) a service instance.
1. [Bind](#bind) a service instance to your application.
1. [Update](#use) your application to use the service.

### Services vs. Service Instances

Services provision services instances. For example, ExampleDB might be a service that provisions MySQL databases.
Depending on the plan you select, you might get a database in a multi-tenant
server, or a dedicated server.

Not all services provide databases; a service may simply provision an account on
their system for you.
Whatever is provisioned for you by a service is a service instance.

## <a id='create'></a>Creating Managed Service Instances ##

You can create a managed service instance with the command: `cf create-service SERVICE PLAN SERVICE_INSTANCE`

`cf create-service` takes the following required arguments:

* SERVICE: The service you choose.
* PLAN: Service plans are a way for providers to offer varying levels
of resources or features for the same service.
* SERVICE\_INSTANCE: A name you provide for your service instance.
This is an alias for the instance which is meaningful to you.
Use any series of alpha-numeric characters, hyphens (-), and underscores (_).
You can rename the instance at any time.

Following this step, your managed service instance is provisioned:

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf create-service rabbitmq small-plan my_rabbitmq

Creating service my_rabbitmq in org console / space development as user@example.com... OK
</pre>

**Note**: For more information about creating a user-provided service instance,
refer to [User-Provided Service Instances](./user-provided.html).

## <a id='bind'></a>Binding a Service Instance to your Application ##

Some services provide bindable service instances.
For services that offer bindable service instances, binding a service to your
application adds credentials for the service instance to the
[VCAP_SERVICES](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#VCAP_SERVICES)
environment variable.

In most cases these credentials are unique to the binding; another application
bound to the same service instance would receive different credentials.

How your application leverages the contents of environment variables may depend
on the framework you employ.
Refer to the [Deploy Applications](../deploy-apps/index.html) topics for more information.

You can bind either a managed or a user-provided service instance to an application with the command `cf bind-service APPLICATION SERVICE_INSTANCE`

`cf bind-service` takes the following required arguments:

* APPLICATION: The name of the application to which you want to bind a service.
* SERVICE\_INSTANCE: The name you provided when you created your service
instance.

If the service supports binding, this command binds the service instance to your
application.

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf bind-service rails-sample my_rabbitmq

Binding service my_rabbitmq to app rails-sample in org console / space development as user@example.com... OK

	TIP: Use 'cf push' to ensure your env variable changes take effect
</pre>

Use `cf push` to update the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable with your
changes.

## <a id='use'></a>Using Bound Services ##

Once you have a service instance created and bound to your application, you will
need to configure the application to dynamically fetch the credentials for your
service.
These credentials are stored in the
[VCAP_SERVICES](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#VCAP_SERVICES)
environment variable.
There are generally two methods for these consuming credentials.

* **Auto-configuration**: Some buildpacks create a service connection for you
by creating additional environment variables, updating config files, or passing
system parameters to the JVM.
* **Manual**: [Parse the JSON yourself](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#app). Helper libraries are
available for some frameworks.

See the [buildpacks documentation](../../buildpacks) to learn more about
working with specific frameworks.

Commit message:

explain need to provision enough service connections to cover DEA updates

services/adding-a-service.html.md, after:

---
title: Add a Service
---

_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

This guide walks you through adding, binding, and using services.
It assumes you have pushed an application to your Cloud Foundry instance.

## <a id='intro'></a>Intro to Services ##

Cloud Foundry Services are add-ons that can be provisioned alongside your application. Learn all about Services at [Using Services](index.html).

There are two types of Cloud Foundry services:
- Service brokers advertise catalogs of [managed services](./managed.html) such as databases, key-value stores, messaging, or other types of services.
- [User-provided services](./user-provided.html) allow you to represent external assets like databases, messaging services, and key-value stores in Cloud Foundry.

In order to use services with your application you will need to:

1. [Create](#create) a service instance.
1. [Bind](#bind) a service instance to your application.
1. [Update](#use) your application to use the service.

### <a id='instances'></a> Services vs. Service Instances ###

Services provision services instances. For example, ExampleDB might be a service that provisions MySQL databases.
Depending on the plan you select, you might get a database in a multi-tenant
server, or a dedicated server.

Not all services provide databases; a service may simply provision an account on
their system for you.
Whatever is provisioned for you by a service is a service instance.

## <a id='create'></a>Creating Managed Service Instances ##

You can create a managed service instance with the command: `cf create-service SERVICE PLAN SERVICE_INSTANCE`

`cf create-service` takes the following required arguments:

* SERVICE: The service you choose.
* PLAN: Service plans are a way for providers to offer varying levels
of resources or features for the same service.
* SERVICE\_INSTANCE: A name you provide for your service instance.
This is an alias for the instance which is meaningful to you.
Use any series of alpha-numeric characters, hyphens (-), and underscores (_).
You can rename the instance at any time.

Following this step, your managed service instance is provisioned:

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf create-service rabbitmq small-plan my_rabbitmq

Creating service my_rabbitmq in org console / space development as user@example.com... OK
</pre>

**Note**: For more information about creating a user-provided service instance,
refer to [User-Provided Service Instances](./user-provided.html).

### <a id='connections'></a> Choosing the right plan  ###

Like all PaaSes, Cloud Foundry updates its VMs periodically.
When updating DEAs, Cloud Foundry spins up a new DEA with a new copy of your
app, then spins down the old app instance and the old DEA.
Your app remains available, but during the "rolling update," the number of app
instances increases.

You need to consider this when choosing a service plan because
every service plan specifies a maximum number of connections.
Choose a plan which offers enough connections to cover the increase in application
instances during DEA updates.
To run a small number of app instances (including workers), look for a plan
that offers twice that many connections.
For large numbers of instances, the ratio of service connections to app instances
can be closer to one-to-one.

## <a id='bind'></a>Binding a Service Instance to your Application ##

Some services provide bindable service instances.
For services that offer bindable service instances, binding a service to your
application adds credentials for the service instance to the
[VCAP_SERVICES](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#VCAP_SERVICES)
environment variable.

In most cases these credentials are unique to the binding; another application
bound to the same service instance would receive different credentials.

How your application leverages the contents of environment variables may depend
on the framework you employ.
Refer to the [Deploy Applications](../deploy-apps/index.html) topics for more information.

You can bind either a managed or a user-provided service instance to an application with the command `cf bind-service APPLICATION SERVICE_INSTANCE`

`cf bind-service` takes the following required arguments:

* APPLICATION: The name of the application to which you want to bind a service.
* SERVICE\_INSTANCE: The name you provided when you created your service
instance.

If the service supports binding, this command binds the service instance to your
application.

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf bind-service rails-sample my_rabbitmq

Binding service my_rabbitmq to app rails-sample in org console / space development as user@example.com... OK

	TIP: Use 'cf push' to ensure your env variable changes take effect
</pre>

Use `cf push` to update the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable with your
changes.

## <a id='use'></a>Using Bound Services ##

Once you have a service instance created and bound to your application, you will
need to configure the application to dynamically fetch the credentials for your
service.
These credentials are stored in the
[VCAP_SERVICES](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#VCAP_SERVICES)
environment variable.
There are generally two methods for these consuming credentials.

* **Auto-configuration**: Some buildpacks create a service connection for you
by creating additional environment variables, updating config files, or passing
system parameters to the JVM.
* **Manual**: [Parse the JSON yourself](../deploy-apps/environment-variable.html#app). Helper libraries are
available for some frameworks.

See the [buildpacks documentation](../../buildpacks) to learn more about
working with specific frameworks.
