services/node-service-bindings.html.md, before:

---
title: Configure Service Connections for Node.js
---


## <a id='intro'></a>Introduction ##

This guide is for developers who wish to bind a data source to a Node.js application deployed and running on Cloud Foundry.

### <a id='creating'></a> Creating a Service ##

To create a service issue the following command with cf and answer the interactive prompts;

~~~bash
$ cf create-service
~~~


### <a id='binding'></a> Binding a Service ##

To bind the service to the application, use the following cf command;

~~~bash
$ cf bind-service --app [application name] --service [service name]
~~~

## <a id='Connecting'></a> Connecting to a Service ##

You will need to include the appropriate package for the type of services your application uses. For example:

* Rabbit MQ via the [ampq](https://github.com/postwait/node-amqp) module
* Mongo via the [mongodb](http://mongodb.github.com/node-mongodb-native/) and [mongoose](http://mongoosejs.com/) modules
* MySQL via the [mysql](https://github.com/felixge/node-mysql) module
* Postgres via the [pg](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres) module
* Redis via the [redis](https://github.com/mranney/node_redis) module

## <a id='Connecting'></a> Add the Dependency to package.json ##

Edit `package.json` and add the intended module to dependencies section, normally only one would be necessary but for brevity's sake we will add all of them.

~~~json
{
  "name": "hello-node",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "*",
    "mongodb": "*",
    "mongoose": "*",
    "mysql": "*",
    "pg": "*",
    "redis": "*",
    "ampq": "*"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "0.8.x"
  }
}
~~~

You will also need to run `npm shrinkwrap` to regenerate your `npm-shrinkwrap.json` file after you edit `package.json`.

## <a id='creds'></a>Parse VCAP_SERVICES for Credentials  ##

You will need to parse the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable in your code to get the required connection details, such as host address, port, user name and password.

For example, if you are using PostgreSQL, your VCAP_SERVICES environment variable might look something like this:

~~~json
{
	"mypostgres": [{
		"name": "myinstance",
		"credentials": {
			"uri": "postgres://myusername:mypassword@host.example.com:5432/serviceinstance"
		}
	}]
}
~~~

This example JSON is simplified; yours may contain additional properties.

First, parse the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable. For example:

~~~
var vcap_services = JSON.parse(process.env.VCAP_SERVICES)
~~~

Then you will need to pull out the credential information required to connect to your service. Each of the service packages require
slightly different information. If you are working with Postgres, for example, you will need a uri to connect. You can assign
the value of the uri to a variable like so:

~~~
var uri = vcap_services.mypostgres[0].credentials.uri
~~~

Now you can use your credentials as you normally would in your program to connect to your database.

Commit message:

added statement that use of cf v5 is assumed

services/node-service-bindings.html.md, after:

---
title: Configure Service Connections for Node.js
---
_This page assumes that you are using cf v5._

## <a id='intro'></a>Introduction ##

This guide is for developers who wish to bind a data source to a Node.js application deployed and running on Cloud Foundry.

### <a id='creating'></a> Creating a Service ##

To create a service issue the following command with cf and answer the interactive prompts;

~~~bash
$ cf create-service
~~~


### <a id='binding'></a> Binding a Service ##

To bind the service to the application, use the following cf command;

~~~bash
$ cf bind-service --app [application name] --service [service name]
~~~

## <a id='Connecting'></a> Connecting to a Service ##

You will need to include the appropriate package for the type of services your application uses. For example:

* Rabbit MQ via the [ampq](https://github.com/postwait/node-amqp) module
* Mongo via the [mongodb](http://mongodb.github.com/node-mongodb-native/) and [mongoose](http://mongoosejs.com/) modules
* MySQL via the [mysql](https://github.com/felixge/node-mysql) module
* Postgres via the [pg](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres) module
* Redis via the [redis](https://github.com/mranney/node_redis) module

## <a id='Connecting'></a> Add the Dependency to package.json ##

Edit `package.json` and add the intended module to dependencies section, normally only one would be necessary but for brevity's sake we will add all of them.

~~~json
{
  "name": "hello-node",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "*",
    "mongodb": "*",
    "mongoose": "*",
    "mysql": "*",
    "pg": "*",
    "redis": "*",
    "ampq": "*"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "0.8.x"
  }
}
~~~

You will also need to run `npm shrinkwrap` to regenerate your `npm-shrinkwrap.json` file after you edit `package.json`.

## <a id='creds'></a>Parse VCAP_SERVICES for Credentials  ##

You will need to parse the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable in your code to get the required connection details, such as host address, port, user name and password.

For example, if you are using PostgreSQL, your VCAP_SERVICES environment variable might look something like this:

~~~json
{
	"mypostgres": [{
		"name": "myinstance",
		"credentials": {
			"uri": "postgres://myusername:mypassword@host.example.com:5432/serviceinstance"
		}
	}]
}
~~~

This example JSON is simplified; yours may contain additional properties.

First, parse the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable. For example:

~~~
var vcap_services = JSON.parse(process.env.VCAP_SERVICES)
~~~

Then you will need to pull out the credential information required to connect to your service. Each of the service packages require
slightly different information. If you are working with Postgres, for example, you will need a uri to connect. You can assign
the value of the uri to a variable like so:

~~~
var uri = vcap_services.mypostgres[0].credentials.uri
~~~

Now you can use your credentials as you normally would in your program to connect to your database.
