deploy-apps/java-tips.html.md, before:

---
title: Tips for Java Developers
---
_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

Cloud Foundry can deploy a number of different JVM-based artifact types. For a more detailed explaination of what it supports, please see the [Java Buildpack documentation][d].

## <a id='grails'></a>Grails ##
Grails packages applications into WAR files for deployment into a Servlet container.
To build the WAR file and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ grails prod war
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>

## <a id='groovy'></a>Groovy ##
Groovy applications based on both [Ratpack][r] and a simple collection of files are supported.

### <a id='grails'></a>Ratpack ###
Ratpack packages applications into two different styles; Cloud Foundry supports the `distZip` style. To build the ZIP and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ gradle distZip
$ cf push <application-name> --path build/distributions/&lt;application-name&gt;.zip
</pre>

### <a id='raw-groovy'></a>Raw Groovy ###
 Groovy applications that are made up of a [single entry point][g] plus any supporting files can be run without any other work. To deploy them, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf push <application-name>
</pre>

## <a id='java-main'></a>Java Main ##
Java applications with a `main()` method can be run provided that they are packaged as [self-executable JARs][j].

### <a id='java-main-maven'></a>Maven ###
A Maven build can create a self-exectuable JAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
	$ mvn package
	$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.jar
</pre>

### <a id='java-main-gradle'></a>Gradle ###
A Gradle build can create a self-exectuable JAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
	$ gradle build
	$ cf push <application-name> --path build/libs/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.jar
</pre>

## <a id='play-framework'></a>Play Framework ##
 The [Play Framework][p] packages applications into two different styles; Cloud Foundry supports both the `staged` and `dist` styles. To build the `dist` style and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ play dist
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/universal/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt.zip
</pre>

## <a id='spring-boot-cli'></a>Spring Boot CLI ##
[Spring Boot][s] can run applications [comprised entirely of POGOs][b]. To deploy then, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ spring grab *.groovy
$ cf push <application-name>
</pre>

## <a id='servlet'></a>Servlet ##
Java applications can be packaged as Servlet applications.

### <a id='servlet-maven'></a>Maven ###
A Maven build can create a Servlet WAR. To build and deploy the WAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ mvn package
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>


### <a id='servlet-gradle'></a>Gradle ###
A Gradle build can create a Servlet WAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ gradle build
$ cf push <application-name> --path build/libs/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>

## <a id='services'></a>Binding to Services ##
Information about binding apps to services can be found on the following pages:

* [Service Bindings for Grails Applications](../services/grails-service-bindings.html)
* [Service Bindings for Play Framework Applications](../services/play-service-bindings.html)
* [Service Bindings for Spring Applications](../services/spring-service-bindings.html)

-----

[b]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-spring_boot_cli.md
[d]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#additional-documentation
[g]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-groovy.md
[j]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-java_main.md
[p]: http://www.playframework.com
[r]: http://www.ratpack.io
[s]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/

## <a id='buildpack'></a>Java Buildpack ##

For detailed information about using, configuring, and extending the Cloud Foundry
Java buildpack, see <https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack>.

## <a id='design'></a>Design ##
The Java Buildpack is designed to convert artifacts that run on the JVM into
executable applications. It does this by identifying one of the supported artifact
types (Grails, Groovy, Java, Play Framework, Spring Boot, and Servlet) and downloading
all additional dependencies needed to run. The collection of services bound to the
application is also analyzed and any dependencies related to those services are also
downloaded.

As an example, pushing a WAR file that is bound to a PostgreSQL database and New Relic (for performance monitoring) would result in the following:


<pre class="terminal">
Initialized empty Git repository in /tmp/buildpacks/java-buildpack/.git/
-----> Java Buildpack source: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#0928916a2dd78e9faf9469c558046eef09f60e5d
-----> Downloading Open Jdk JRE 1.7.0_51 from http://.../openjdk/lucid/x86_64/openjdk-1.7.0_51.tar.gz (0.0s)
       Expanding Open Jdk JRE to .java-buildpack/open_jdk_jre (1.9s)
-----> Downloading New Relic Agent 3.4.1 from http://.../new-relic/new-relic-3.4.1.jar (0.4s)
-----> Downloading Postgresql JDBC 9.3.1100 from http://.../postgresql-jdbc/postgresql-jdbc-9.3.1100.jar (0.0s)
-----> Downloading Spring Auto Reconfiguration 0.8.7 from http://.../auto-reconfiguration/auto-reconfiguration-0.8.7.jar (0.0s)
       Modifying /WEB-INF/web.xml for Auto Reconfiguration
-----> Downloading Tomcat 7.0.50 from http://.../tomcat/tomcat-7.0.50.tar.gz (0.0s)
       Expanding Tomcat to .java-buildpack/tomcat (0.1s)
-----> Downloading Buildpack Tomcat Support 1.1.1 from http://.../tomcat-buildpack-support/tomcat-buildpack-support-1.1.1.jar (0.1s)
-----> Uploading droplet (57M)
</pre>

## <a id='configuration'></a>Configuration ##
The buildpack is designed such that it will "just work" without any configuration. If
you are new to Cloud Foundry you should make your first attempts without modifying the
buildpack configuration. However, if you find that some configuration is required, it
can be done with [a fork of the buildpack][f].

## <a id='extension'></a>Extension ##
The Java Buildpack is also designed to be easily extended. It creates abstractions for
[three types of components][a] (containers, frameworks, and JREs) in order to allow
users to easily add (and contribute back) functionality. In addition to these
abstractions, there are a number of [utility classes][e] for simplifying typical
buildpack behaviors.

As an example, the New Relic framework looks like the following:

```ruby
class NewRelicAgent < JavaBuildpack::Component::VersionedDependencyComponent

  # @macro base_component_compile
  def compile
    FileUtils.mkdir_p logs_dir

    download_jar
    @droplet.copy_resources
  end

  # @macro base_component_release
  def release
    @droplet.java_opts
    .add_javaagent(@droplet.sandbox + jar_name)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.home', @droplet.sandbox)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.license_key', license_key)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.app_name', "'#{application_name}'")
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.log_file_path', logs_dir)
  end

  protected

  # @macro versioned_dependency_component_supports
  def supports?
    @application.services.one_service? FILTER, 'licenseKey'
  end

  private

  FILTER = /newrelic/.freeze

  def application_name
    @application.details['application_name']
  end

  def license_key
    @application.services.find_service(FILTER)['credentials']['licenseKey']
  end

  def logs_dir
    @droplet.sandbox + 'logs'
  end

end
```

[a]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/design.md
[e]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/extending.md
[f]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#configuration-and-extension

Commit message:

updating docs with changes from PR 300 to cf-docs repo

deploy-apps/java-tips.html.md, after:

---
title: Tips for Java Developers
---
_This page assumes that you are using cf v6._

Cloud Foundry can deploy a number of different JVM-based artifact types. For a more detailed explaination of what it supports, please see the [Java Buildpack documentation][d].

## Java Client Library (`cloudfoundry-client-lib`) ##

The Cloud Foundry Client Library provides a Java API for interacting with a Cloud Foundry instance. This library is used by the Cloud Foundry Maven plugin, the Cloud Foundry Gradle plugin, the [Cloud Foundry STS integration](./sts.html), and other Java-based tools.

For information about using this library, see the [Java Cloud Foundry Library](./java-client.html) page.

## <a id='grails'></a>Grails ##
Grails packages applications into WAR files for deployment into a Servlet container.
To build the WAR file and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ grails prod war
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>

## <a id='groovy'></a>Groovy ##
Groovy applications based on both [Ratpack][r] and a simple collection of files are supported.

### <a id='grails'></a>Ratpack ###
Ratpack packages applications into two different styles; Cloud Foundry supports the `distZip` style. To build the ZIP and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ gradle distZip
$ cf push <application-name> --path build/distributions/&lt;application-name&gt;.zip
</pre>

### <a id='raw-groovy'></a>Raw Groovy ###
 Groovy applications that are made up of a [single entry point][g] plus any supporting files can be run without any other work. To deploy them, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf push <application-name>
</pre>

## <a id='java-main'></a>Java Main ##
Java applications with a `main()` method can be run provided that they are packaged as [self-executable JARs][j].

### <a id='java-main-maven'></a>Maven ###
A Maven build can create a self-exectuable JAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
	$ mvn package
	$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.jar
</pre>

### <a id='java-main-gradle'></a>Gradle ###
A Gradle build can create a self-exectuable JAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
	$ gradle build
	$ cf push <application-name> --path build/libs/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.jar
</pre>

## <a id='play-framework'></a>Play Framework ##
 The [Play Framework][p] packages applications into two different styles; Cloud Foundry supports both the `staged` and `dist` styles. To build the `dist` style and deploy it, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ play dist
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/universal/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt.zip
</pre>

## <a id='spring-boot-cli'></a>Spring Boot CLI ##
[Spring Boot][s] can run applications [comprised entirely of POGOs][b]. To deploy then, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ spring grab *.groovy
$ cf push <application-name>
</pre>

## <a id='servlet'></a>Servlet ##
Java applications can be packaged as Servlet applications.

### <a id='servlet-maven'></a>Maven ###
A Maven build can create a Servlet WAR. To build and deploy the WAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ mvn package
$ cf push <application-name> --path target/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>


### <a id='servlet-gradle'></a>Gradle ###
A Gradle build can create a Servlet WAR. To build and deploy the JAR, run the following:

<pre class="terminal">
$ gradle build
$ cf push <application-name> --path build/libs/&lt;application-name&gt;-&lt;application-version&gt;.war
</pre>

## <a id='services'></a>Binding to Services ##
Information about binding apps to services can be found on the following pages:

* [Service Bindings for Grails Applications](../services/grails-service-bindings.html)
* [Service Bindings for Play Framework Applications](../services/play-service-bindings.html)
* [Service Bindings for Spring Applications](../services/spring-service-bindings.html)

-----

[b]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-spring_boot_cli.md
[d]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#additional-documentation
[g]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-groovy.md
[j]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/container-java_main.md
[p]: http://www.playframework.com
[r]: http://www.ratpack.io
[s]: http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/

## <a id='buildpack'></a>Java Buildpack ##

For detailed information about using, configuring, and extending the Cloud Foundry
Java buildpack, see <https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack>.

## <a id='design'></a>Design ##
The Java Buildpack is designed to convert artifacts that run on the JVM into
executable applications. It does this by identifying one of the supported artifact
types (Grails, Groovy, Java, Play Framework, Spring Boot, and Servlet) and downloading
all additional dependencies needed to run. The collection of services bound to the
application is also analyzed and any dependencies related to those services are also
downloaded.

As an example, pushing a WAR file that is bound to a PostgreSQL database and New Relic (for performance monitoring) would result in the following:


<pre class="terminal">
Initialized empty Git repository in /tmp/buildpacks/java-buildpack/.git/
-----> Java Buildpack source: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#0928916a2dd78e9faf9469c558046eef09f60e5d
-----> Downloading Open Jdk JRE 1.7.0_51 from http://.../openjdk/lucid/x86_64/openjdk-1.7.0_51.tar.gz (0.0s)
       Expanding Open Jdk JRE to .java-buildpack/open_jdk_jre (1.9s)
-----> Downloading New Relic Agent 3.4.1 from http://.../new-relic/new-relic-3.4.1.jar (0.4s)
-----> Downloading Postgresql JDBC 9.3.1100 from http://.../postgresql-jdbc/postgresql-jdbc-9.3.1100.jar (0.0s)
-----> Downloading Spring Auto Reconfiguration 0.8.7 from http://.../auto-reconfiguration/auto-reconfiguration-0.8.7.jar (0.0s)
       Modifying /WEB-INF/web.xml for Auto Reconfiguration
-----> Downloading Tomcat 7.0.50 from http://.../tomcat/tomcat-7.0.50.tar.gz (0.0s)
       Expanding Tomcat to .java-buildpack/tomcat (0.1s)
-----> Downloading Buildpack Tomcat Support 1.1.1 from http://.../tomcat-buildpack-support/tomcat-buildpack-support-1.1.1.jar (0.1s)
-----> Uploading droplet (57M)
</pre>

## <a id='configuration'></a>Configuration ##
The buildpack is designed such that it will "just work" without any configuration. If
you are new to Cloud Foundry you should make your first attempts without modifying the
buildpack configuration. However, if you find that some configuration is required, it
can be done with [a fork of the buildpack][f].

## <a id='extension'></a>Extension ##
The Java Buildpack is also designed to be easily extended. It creates abstractions for
[three types of components][a] (containers, frameworks, and JREs) in order to allow
users to easily add (and contribute back) functionality. In addition to these
abstractions, there are a number of [utility classes][e] for simplifying typical
buildpack behaviors.

As an example, the New Relic framework looks like the following:

```ruby
class NewRelicAgent < JavaBuildpack::Component::VersionedDependencyComponent

  # @macro base_component_compile
  def compile
    FileUtils.mkdir_p logs_dir

    download_jar
    @droplet.copy_resources
  end

  # @macro base_component_release
  def release
    @droplet.java_opts
    .add_javaagent(@droplet.sandbox + jar_name)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.home', @droplet.sandbox)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.license_key', license_key)
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.app_name', "'#{application_name}'")
    .add_system_property('newrelic.config.log_file_path', logs_dir)
  end

  protected

  # @macro versioned_dependency_component_supports
  def supports?
    @application.services.one_service? FILTER, 'licenseKey'
  end

  private

  FILTER = /newrelic/.freeze

  def application_name
    @application.details['application_name']
  end

  def license_key
    @application.services.find_service(FILTER)['credentials']['licenseKey']
  end

  def logs_dir
    @droplet.sandbox + 'logs'
  end

end
```

[a]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/design.md
[e]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack/blob/master/docs/extending.md
[f]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack#configuration-and-extension
