deploy-apps/ruby-tips.html.md, before:

---
title: Tips for Ruby Developers
---

This page has information specific to deploying  Rack, Rails, or Sinatra applications.

## <a id='bundler'></a> Application Bundling ##

You need to run <a href="http://gembundler.com/">Bundler</a> to create a `Gemfile` and a `Gemfile.lock`. These files must be in your application before you push to Cloud Foundry.

## <a id='config'></a> Rack Config File ##

For Rack and Sinatra you need a `config.ru` file like this:

~~~ruby
require './hello_world'
run HelloWorld.new
~~~

## <a id='precompile'></a> Asset Precompilation ##

Cloud Foundry supports the Rails asset pipeline. If you do not precompile assets before deploying your application, Cloud Foundry will precompile them when staging the application. Precompiling before deploying reduces the time it takes to stage an application.

Use this command to precompile assets before deployment:

<pre class="terminal">
rake assets:precompile
</pre>


Note that the Rake precompile task reinitializes the Rails application. This could pose a problem if initialization requires service connections or environment checks that are unavailable during staging. To prevent reinitialiation during precompilation, add this line to `application.rb`:

~~~ruby
config.assets.initialize_on_precompile = false
~~~

If the `assets:precompile` task fails, Cloud Foundry uses live compilation mode, the alternative to asset precompilation. In this mode, assets are compiled when they are loaded for the first time. You can force live compilation by adding this line to `application.rb`.

~~~ruby
Rails.application.config.assets.compile = true
~~~


## <a id='rake'></a> Running Rake Tasks ##

Cloud Foundry does not provide a mechanism for running a Rake task on a deployed application.
If you need to run a Rake task that must be performed in the Cloud Foundry environment (rather than locally before deploying or redeploying), you can configure the command that Cloud Foundry uses to start the application to invoke the Rake task.

An application's start command is configured in the application's manifest file, `manifest.yml`, with the `command` attribute.

If you have previously deployed the application, the application manifest should already exist. There are two ways to create a manifest. You can manually create the file and save it in the application's root directory before you deploy the application for the first time. If you do not manually create the manifest file, cf will prompt you to supply deployment settings when you first push the application, and will create and save the manifest file for you, with the settings  you specified interactively. For more information about application manifests, and supported attributes, see [Application Manifests](manifest.html).

For an example of invoking a Rake database migration task at application startup, see [Migrate a Database for a Rails App](../services/migrate-db.html#migrate-ruby-db).


## <a id='workers'></a> Running Rails 3 Worker Tasks ##

Often when developing a Rails 3 application, you may want delay certain tasks so as not to consume resource that could be used for servicing requests from your user. This section shows you how to create and deploy an example Rails application that will make use of a worker library to defer a task, this task will then be executed by a separate application. The guide also shows how you can scale the resource available to the worker application.

### <a id='worker-libs'></a> Choosing a Worker Task Library ###

The first task is to decide which worker task library to use. Here is a summary of the three main libraries available for Ruby / Rails;


| Library          | Description |
| :------------------ | :------- |
|[Delayed::Job](https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job) |A direct extraction from [Shopify](http://www.shopify.com/) where the job table is responsible for a multitude of core tasks. |
|[Resque](https://github.com/defunkt/resque) |A Redis-backed library for creating background jobs, placing those jobs on multiple queues, and processing them later. |
|[Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq)|Uses threads to handle many messages at the same time in the same process. It does not require Rails but will integrate tightly with Rails 3 to make background message processing dead simple." This library is also Redis-backed and is actually somewhat compatible with Resque messaging. |

For other alternatives, see  https://www.ruby-toolbox.com/categories/Background_Jobs for more!

### <a id='example-app'></a> Creating an Example Application ###

For the purposes of the example application, we will use Sidekiq, setup is pretty straight forward and it's a very performant solution.

First, create a Rails application with an arbitrary model called things;

<pre class="terminal">
$ rails create rails-sidekiq
$ cd rails-sidekiq
$ rails g model Thing title:string description:string
</pre>

Add sidekiq and uuidtools to the Gemfile, it's going to end up looking like this
;

~~~ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'rails', '3.2.9'
gem 'mysql2'

group :assets do
  gem 'sass-rails',   '~> 3.2.3'
  gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 3.2.1'
  gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.0.3'
end

gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'sidekiq'
gem 'uuidtools'
~~~

Install the bundle.

<pre class="terminal">
$ bundle install
</pre>

Create a worker (in app/workers) for sidekiq to carry out it's tasks;

<pre class="terminal">
$ touch app/workers/thing_worker.rb
</pre>

~~~ruby
class ThingWorker

  include Sidekiq::Worker

  def perform(count)

    count.times do

      thing_uuid = UUIDTools::UUID.random_create.to_s
      Thing.create :title => "New Thing (#{thing_uuid})", :description => "This is the description for thing #{thing_uuid}"
    end

  end

end
~~~

This worker will create n number of things, where n is the value passed to the worker.

Create a controller for 'things';

<pre class="terminal">
$ rails g controller Thing
</pre>

~~~ruby
class ThingController < ApplicationController

  def new
    ThingWorker.perform_async(2)
    redirect_to '/thing'
  end

  def index
    @things = Thing.all
  end

end
~~~

Add a view to inspect our collection of things;

<pre class="terminal">
$ mkdir app/views/things
$ touch app/views/things/index.html.erb
</pre>

~~~html
<%= @things.inspect %>
~~~

#### <a id='deploy'></a>Deploying Once, Deploying Twice ####

This application needs to be deployed twice for it to work, once as a Rails web application and once as a standalone Ruby application. The easiest way to do this is to keep separate CF manifests for each application type;

Web Manifest (save this as web-manifest.yml)

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: sidekiq
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  host: sidekiq
  domain: ${target-base}
  path: .
  services:
    sidekiq-mysql:
      vendor: mysql
      version: "5.1"
      tier: free
    sidekiq-redis:
      vendor: redis
      version: "2.6"
      tier: free
~~~

Worker Manifest (save this as `worker-manifest.yml`)

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: sidekiq-worker
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  path: .
  command: bundle exec sidekiq
  services:
    sidekiq-redis:
      vendor: redis
      version: "2.6"
      tier: free
    sidekiq-mysql:
      vendor: mysql
      version: "5.1"
      tier: free
~~~

The url 'sidekiq.cloudfoundry.com' will probably be taken, change it in `web-manifest.yml` first.
Push the application with both manifest files;

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf push -m web-manifest.yml
$ cf push -m worker-manifest.yml
</pre>

CF will likely ask for a URL for the worker application, select option 2 - "none".

### <a id='test'></a>Test the Application ###

Test the application by visiting the new action on the thing controller at the assigned url, in this example, the URL would have been http://sidekiq.cloudfoundry.com/thing/new

This will create a new sidekiq job which will be queued in Redis and then picked up by the worker application, the browser is then redirected to /thing which will show the collection of 'things'. The likelihood is that the task will be completed by Sidekiq before the browser has even redirected!

### <a id='test'></a>Scale Workers ###

The nice thing about this approach is it makes scaling your Sidekiq workers trivial, pending available resource.

Change the number of workers to two;

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf scale sidekiq-worker --instances 2
</pre>

## <a id='buildpack'></a>About the Ruby Buildpack ##

For information about using and extending the Ruby buildpack in Cloud Foundry, see https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-ruby.

The table below below lists:

* **Resource** --- The software installed by the Cloud Foundry Ruby buildpack, when appropriate.
* **Available Versions** --- The versions of each software resource that are available from the buildpack.
* **Installed by Default** --- The version of each software resource that is installed by default.
* **To Install a Different Version** --- How to change the buildpack to install a different version of a software resource.

**This table was last updated on August 14, 2013.**

|Resource |Available Versions |Installed by Default| To Install a Different Version |
| --------- | --------- | --------- |--------- |
|Ruby |1.8.7  patchlevel 374, Rubygems 1.8.24 <br><br>1.9.2  patchlevel 320, Rubygems 1.3.7.1 <br><br>1.9.3  patchlevel 448, Rubygems 1.8.24 <br><br>2.0.0  patchlevel 247, Rubygems 2.0.3   | The latest security patch release of 1.9.3|Specify desired version in application gem file. |
|Bundler |1.2.1 <br><br>1.3.0.pre.5<br><br>1.3.2 |1.3.2 |Not supported. |

Commit message:

added statement that use of cf v5 is assumed

deploy-apps/ruby-tips.html.md, after:

---
title: Tips for Ruby Developers
---
_This page assumes that you are using cf v5._

This page has information specific to deploying  Rack, Rails, or Sinatra applications.

## <a id='bundler'></a> Application Bundling ##

You need to run <a href="http://gembundler.com/">Bundler</a> to create a `Gemfile` and a `Gemfile.lock`. These files must be in your application before you push to Cloud Foundry.

## <a id='config'></a> Rack Config File ##

For Rack and Sinatra you need a `config.ru` file like this:

~~~ruby
require './hello_world'
run HelloWorld.new
~~~

## <a id='precompile'></a> Asset Precompilation ##

Cloud Foundry supports the Rails asset pipeline. If you do not precompile assets before deploying your application, Cloud Foundry will precompile them when staging the application. Precompiling before deploying reduces the time it takes to stage an application.

Use this command to precompile assets before deployment:

<pre class="terminal">
rake assets:precompile
</pre>


Note that the Rake precompile task reinitializes the Rails application. This could pose a problem if initialization requires service connections or environment checks that are unavailable during staging. To prevent reinitialiation during precompilation, add this line to `application.rb`:

~~~ruby
config.assets.initialize_on_precompile = false
~~~

If the `assets:precompile` task fails, Cloud Foundry uses live compilation mode, the alternative to asset precompilation. In this mode, assets are compiled when they are loaded for the first time. You can force live compilation by adding this line to `application.rb`.

~~~ruby
Rails.application.config.assets.compile = true
~~~


## <a id='rake'></a> Running Rake Tasks ##

Cloud Foundry does not provide a mechanism for running a Rake task on a deployed application.
If you need to run a Rake task that must be performed in the Cloud Foundry environment (rather than locally before deploying or redeploying), you can configure the command that Cloud Foundry uses to start the application to invoke the Rake task.

An application's start command is configured in the application's manifest file, `manifest.yml`, with the `command` attribute.

If you have previously deployed the application, the application manifest should already exist. There are two ways to create a manifest. You can manually create the file and save it in the application's root directory before you deploy the application for the first time. If you do not manually create the manifest file, cf will prompt you to supply deployment settings when you first push the application, and will create and save the manifest file for you, with the settings  you specified interactively. For more information about application manifests, and supported attributes, see [Application Manifests](manifest.html).

For an example of invoking a Rake database migration task at application startup, see [Migrate a Database for a Rails App](../services/migrate-db.html#migrate-ruby-db).


## <a id='workers'></a> Running Rails 3 Worker Tasks ##

Often when developing a Rails 3 application, you may want delay certain tasks so as not to consume resource that could be used for servicing requests from your user. This section shows you how to create and deploy an example Rails application that will make use of a worker library to defer a task, this task will then be executed by a separate application. The guide also shows how you can scale the resource available to the worker application.

### <a id='worker-libs'></a> Choosing a Worker Task Library ###

The first task is to decide which worker task library to use. Here is a summary of the three main libraries available for Ruby / Rails;


| Library          | Description |
| :------------------ | :------- |
|[Delayed::Job](https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job) |A direct extraction from [Shopify](http://www.shopify.com/) where the job table is responsible for a multitude of core tasks. |
|[Resque](https://github.com/defunkt/resque) |A Redis-backed library for creating background jobs, placing those jobs on multiple queues, and processing them later. |
|[Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq)|Uses threads to handle many messages at the same time in the same process. It does not require Rails but will integrate tightly with Rails 3 to make background message processing dead simple." This library is also Redis-backed and is actually somewhat compatible with Resque messaging. |

For other alternatives, see  https://www.ruby-toolbox.com/categories/Background_Jobs for more!

### <a id='example-app'></a> Creating an Example Application ###

For the purposes of the example application, we will use Sidekiq, setup is pretty straight forward and it's a very performant solution.

First, create a Rails application with an arbitrary model called things;

<pre class="terminal">
$ rails create rails-sidekiq
$ cd rails-sidekiq
$ rails g model Thing title:string description:string
</pre>

Add sidekiq and uuidtools to the Gemfile, it's going to end up looking like this
;

~~~ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'rails', '3.2.9'
gem 'mysql2'

group :assets do
  gem 'sass-rails',   '~> 3.2.3'
  gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 3.2.1'
  gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.0.3'
end

gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'sidekiq'
gem 'uuidtools'
~~~

Install the bundle.

<pre class="terminal">
$ bundle install
</pre>

Create a worker (in app/workers) for sidekiq to carry out it's tasks;

<pre class="terminal">
$ touch app/workers/thing_worker.rb
</pre>

~~~ruby
class ThingWorker

  include Sidekiq::Worker

  def perform(count)

    count.times do

      thing_uuid = UUIDTools::UUID.random_create.to_s
      Thing.create :title => "New Thing (#{thing_uuid})", :description => "This is the description for thing #{thing_uuid}"
    end

  end

end
~~~

This worker will create n number of things, where n is the value passed to the worker.

Create a controller for 'things';

<pre class="terminal">
$ rails g controller Thing
</pre>

~~~ruby
class ThingController < ApplicationController

  def new
    ThingWorker.perform_async(2)
    redirect_to '/thing'
  end

  def index
    @things = Thing.all
  end

end
~~~

Add a view to inspect our collection of things;

<pre class="terminal">
$ mkdir app/views/things
$ touch app/views/things/index.html.erb
</pre>

~~~html
<%= @things.inspect %>
~~~

#### <a id='deploy'></a>Deploying Once, Deploying Twice ####

This application needs to be deployed twice for it to work, once as a Rails web application and once as a standalone Ruby application. The easiest way to do this is to keep separate CF manifests for each application type;

Web Manifest (save this as web-manifest.yml)

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: sidekiq
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  host: sidekiq
  domain: ${target-base}
  path: .
  services:
    sidekiq-mysql:
      vendor: mysql
      version: "5.1"
      tier: free
    sidekiq-redis:
      vendor: redis
      version: "2.6"
      tier: free
~~~

Worker Manifest (save this as `worker-manifest.yml`)

~~~yaml
---
applications:
- name: sidekiq-worker
  memory: 256M
  instances: 1
  path: .
  command: bundle exec sidekiq
  services:
    sidekiq-redis:
      vendor: redis
      version: "2.6"
      tier: free
    sidekiq-mysql:
      vendor: mysql
      version: "5.1"
      tier: free
~~~

The url 'sidekiq.cloudfoundry.com' will probably be taken, change it in `web-manifest.yml` first.
Push the application with both manifest files;

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf push -m web-manifest.yml
$ cf push -m worker-manifest.yml
</pre>

CF will likely ask for a URL for the worker application, select option 2 - "none".

### <a id='test'></a>Test the Application ###

Test the application by visiting the new action on the thing controller at the assigned url, in this example, the URL would have been http://sidekiq.cloudfoundry.com/thing/new

This will create a new sidekiq job which will be queued in Redis and then picked up by the worker application, the browser is then redirected to /thing which will show the collection of 'things'. The likelihood is that the task will be completed by Sidekiq before the browser has even redirected!

### <a id='test'></a>Scale Workers ###

The nice thing about this approach is it makes scaling your Sidekiq workers trivial, pending available resource.

Change the number of workers to two;

<pre class="terminal">
$ cf scale sidekiq-worker --instances 2
</pre>

## <a id='buildpack'></a>About the Ruby Buildpack ##

For information about using and extending the Ruby buildpack in Cloud Foundry, see https://github.com/cloudfoundry/heroku-buildpack-ruby.

The table below below lists:

* **Resource** --- The software installed by the Cloud Foundry Ruby buildpack, when appropriate.
* **Available Versions** --- The versions of each software resource that are available from the buildpack.
* **Installed by Default** --- The version of each software resource that is installed by default.
* **To Install a Different Version** --- How to change the buildpack to install a different version of a software resource.

**This table was last updated on August 14, 2013.**

|Resource |Available Versions |Installed by Default| To Install a Different Version |
| --------- | --------- | --------- |--------- |
|Ruby |1.8.7  patchlevel 374, Rubygems 1.8.24 <br><br>1.9.2  patchlevel 320, Rubygems 1.3.7.1 <br><br>1.9.3  patchlevel 448, Rubygems 1.8.24 <br><br>2.0.0  patchlevel 247, Rubygems 2.0.3   | The latest security patch release of 1.9.3|Specify desired version in application gem file. |
|Bundler |1.2.1 <br><br>1.3.0.pre.5<br><br>1.3.2 |1.3.2 |Not supported. |
